README.adoc, before:

= Overview

= Installation Procedures

== Setup laptop

----
sudo dnf install ansible-core wget
ssh-keygen -t ed25519
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub 
----

Go to github settings and add ssh pub key

* https://github.com/settings/keys

Fix ssh config

----
cat ~/.ssh/config 
HostName github.com
IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
----

----
chmod 0600 ~/.ssh/conig
mkdir -p ~/redhat/ocpv4/git && cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git/
git clone git@github.com:sullyvon/ocpv4-deployment-tam.git
#this should go into the staging software playbook
sudo curl -sSL -o /usr/local/bin/argocd https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/releases/latest/download/argocd-linux-amd64
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/argocd
----

== Ansible Core Hub Cluster Deployment

*NOTE*

For simplicity we demo this via ansible core but for an Enterprise environment Ansible Tower makes more sense

*Stage OCPv4 CLI Tooling*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-stage-ocpv4-software.yaml -e "becomemethod=sudo privileged_user=dsulliva ocpv4_version=4.10.12"
----

*Generate Per Cluster SSH Key*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-ssh-keygen.yml -e "cluster_id=dsulliva-hub01"
----

From the output you need to get the public key generated this will go into our cluster install-config.yaml

----
TASK [ssh-keygen : debug] *****************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [127.0.0.1] => {
    "msg": "ssh-rsa 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 dsulliva@ip-172-31-51-30.ec2.internal"
}
----

Replace the sshKey field with one in msg output above

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git//ocpv4-deployment-tam/
vi dsulliva-hub01/config/install-config.yaml
----

*Install OpenShift Hub Cluster*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-install-ocpv4.yml -e "becomemethod=sudo privileged_user=dsulliva privileged_group=dsulliva ocpv4_version=4.10.12 cluster_id=dsulliva-hub01"
----

In another terminal

----
cd ~/dsulliva-hub01
ls -lrt #find the latest install file
tail <latestinstallfile>
----

*Run Post Configuration On Hub Cluster*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-post-ocpv4-config.yml -e "becomemethod=sudo privileged_user=dsulliva privileged_group=dsulliva ocpv4_version=4.10.12 cluster_id=dsulliva-hub01 postconfig_mode=init ready_node_count_init=14 ready_node_count_postinit=14 clustertype=hubextrh acm_managed_cluster=false openshift_gitops_endpoint=openshift-gitops-server-openshift-gitops.apps.dsulliva-hub01.nasatam.support"
----

----
export KUBECONFIG=~/dsulliva-hub01/installocpv4/auth/kubeconfig
----

This playbook/role has 4 main kustomize stages

* Stage I does our machinesets and optionally mco chrony

----
watch -n 5 'oc get machines -n openshift-machine-api && oc get nodes'
----

We really want our machines online and time right before we start throw our operators on

* Stage II does openshift-gitops operator and stages some namespaces

Another chicken and egg problem kind of need argocd up before you can deploy argocd applications

* Stage III does phase one of argocd/openshift-gitops applications

----
watch -n 5 'oc get pods -n openshift-storage && oc get pvc --all-namespaces'
----

* Stage IV does phase two of the argocd/openshift-gitops applications

----
watch -n 5 'oc get nodes'
----

== Ansible Core Spoke Cluster Deployment


*Generate Per Cluster SSH Key*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-ssh-keygen.yml -e "cluster_id=dsulliva-spoke01"
----

Replace the sshKey field from output in install-config.yaml below

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git//ocpv4-deployment-tam/
vi dsulliva-spoke01/config/install-config.yaml
----

*Install OpenShift Spoke Cluster*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-install-ocpv4.yml -e "becomemethod=sudo privileged_user=dsulliva privileged_group=dsulliva ocpv4_version=4.10.12 cluster_id=dsulliva-spoke01"
----

*Clean up time be careful this wipes out the cluster

----
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-destroy-ocpv4.yml -e "becomemethod=sudo privileged_user=dsulliva privileged_group=dsulliva ocpv4_version=4.10.12 cluster_id=dsulliva-spoke01"
----


// vim: set syntax=asciidoc:

Commit message:

adding in new pullsecret for dsulliva-hub01 and code to support

README.adoc, after:

= Overview

= Installation Procedures

== Setup laptop

----
sudo dnf install ansible-core wget
ssh-keygen -t ed25519
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub 
----

Go to github settings and add ssh pub key

* https://github.com/settings/keys

Fix ssh config

----
cat ~/.ssh/config 
HostName github.com
IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
----

----
chmod 0600 ~/.ssh/conig
mkdir -p ~/redhat/ocpv4/git && cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git/
git clone git@github.com:sullyvon/ocpv4-deployment-tam.git
#this should go into the staging software playbook
sudo curl -sSL -o /usr/local/bin/argocd https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/releases/latest/download/argocd-linux-amd64
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/argocd
----

== Ansible Core Hub Cluster Deployment

*NOTE*

For simplicity we demo this via ansible core but for an Enterprise environment Ansible Tower makes more sense

*Stage OCPv4 CLI Tooling*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-stage-ocpv4-software.yaml -e "becomemethod=sudo privileged_user=dsulliva ocpv4_version=4.10.12"
----

*Generate Per Cluster SSH Key*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-ssh-keygen.yml -e "cluster_id=dsulliva-hub01"
----

From the output you need to get the public key generated this will go into our cluster install-config.yaml

----
TASK [ssh-keygen : debug] *****************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [127.0.0.1] => {
    "msg": "ssh-rsa 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 dsulliva@ip-172-31-51-30.ec2.internal"
}
----

Replace the sshKey field with one in msg output above

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git//ocpv4-deployment-tam/
vi dsulliva-hub01/config/install-config.yaml
----

Download Pull Secret and fix your pull secret

https://console.redhat.com/openshift/downloads #see Tokens section

download to ~/.docker/config.tmp and convert to ansible vaulted hash

----
cd ~/.docker/
[dsulliva@fancy .docker]$ cat config.tmp | ansible-vault encrypt_string #Do not forget the password you use here
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git//ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbook
mkdir vars
vi dsulliva-hub01.yaml #add in pullsecret with reference to the encrypted vault hash
----


*Install OpenShift Hub Cluster*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-install-ocpv4.yml -e "becomemethod=sudo privileged_user=dsulliva privileged_group=dsulliva ocpv4_version=4.10.12 cluster_id=dsulliva-hub01"
----

In another terminal

----
cd ~/dsulliva-hub01
ls -lrt #find the latest install file
tail <latestinstallfile>
----

*Run Post Configuration On Hub Cluster*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-post-ocpv4-config.yml -e "becomemethod=sudo privileged_user=dsulliva privileged_group=dsulliva ocpv4_version=4.10.12 cluster_id=dsulliva-hub01 postconfig_mode=init ready_node_count_init=14 ready_node_count_postinit=14 clustertype=hubextrh acm_managed_cluster=false openshift_gitops_endpoint=openshift-gitops-server-openshift-gitops.apps.dsulliva-hub01.nasatam.support"
----

----
export KUBECONFIG=~/dsulliva-hub01/installocpv4/auth/kubeconfig
----

This playbook/role has 4 main kustomize stages

* Stage I does our machinesets and optionally mco chrony

----
watch -n 5 'oc get machines -n openshift-machine-api && oc get nodes'
----

We really want our machines online and time right before we start throw our operators on

* Stage II does openshift-gitops operator and stages some namespaces

Another chicken and egg problem kind of need argocd up before you can deploy argocd applications

* Stage III does phase one of argocd/openshift-gitops applications

----
watch -n 5 'oc get pods -n openshift-storage && oc get pvc --all-namespaces'
----

* Stage IV does phase two of the argocd/openshift-gitops applications

----
watch -n 5 'oc get nodes'
----

== Ansible Core Spoke Cluster Deployment


*Generate Per Cluster SSH Key*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-ssh-keygen.yml -e "cluster_id=dsulliva-spoke01"
----

Replace the sshKey field from output in install-config.yaml below

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git//ocpv4-deployment-tam/
vi dsulliva-spoke01/config/install-config.yaml
----

*Install OpenShift Spoke Cluster*

----
cd ~/redhat/ocpv4/git/ocpv4-deployment-tam/common/playbooks
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-install-ocpv4.yml -e "becomemethod=sudo privileged_user=dsulliva privileged_group=dsulliva ocpv4_version=4.10.12 cluster_id=dsulliva-spoke01"
----

*Clean up time be careful this wipes out the cluster

----
ansible-playbook --connection=local --inventory 127.0.0.1, --limit 127.0.0.1 common-destroy-ocpv4.yml -e "becomemethod=sudo privileged_user=dsulliva privileged_group=dsulliva ocpv4_version=4.10.12 cluster_id=dsulliva-spoke01"
----


// vim: set syntax=asciidoc:
